 AN12400
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud
 Rev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020 Application note
 1240012


Document information
 InformationContent
 Keywords EdgeLock SE05x, Secure cloud onboarding
 Abstract This document describes how to leverage EdgeLock SE05x to establish
a secure connection with the private cloud of an Original Equipment
Manufacturer (OEM).
NXP SemiconductorsAN12400
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud

Revision history

Revision history
 Revision Date Description
 number
 1.02019-06-08 First document release
 1.12020-01-20 Added EdgeLock product name and other minor corrections
 1.22020-07-20 Corrections of TLS handshake process
 1.32020-12-07 Updated template and fixed broken URLs


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application note Rev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
1240012 2 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud

1Device-to-cloud authentication

 Security is a major aspect to take into account when deploying and managing IoT
 devices that connect to the cloud. As the number of connected devices grows, the higher
 the risk of confidential, sensitive or critical data leakage. Without security, any rogue user
 can sniff the communication and disclose private data.
 With the expansion of IoT solutions, the number of devices that need to authenticate and
 send data to clouds grows exponentially. This is the case for industrial devices, sensor
 networks, IP cameras, smart home devices, home gateways, and smart cities. In these
 type of applications:
 • The IoT device needs to authenticate the cloud that will be connected to.
 • The cloud also needs to authenticate the IoT devices to trust them.
 Therefore, to avoid rogue devices or data being compromised, it is essential to
 authenticate devices and clouds as well as protecting the data exchanged between an
 IoT device and the cloud.
 TLS is one of the most used protocols to secure Internet connections, including the
 communication of IoT devices with the cloud. The EdgeLock SE05x supports TLS
 protocol using pre-shared secrets and provides a tamper-resistant platform to securely
 store keys and credentials needed for cloud authentication. Figure 1 depicts the device-
 to-cloud authentication scenario using TLS protocol and EdgeLock SE05x.


Figure 1.  Device-to-cloud authentication scenario

 The exchange of digital certificates is the basis of the authentication process during
 the TLS handshake protocol. The two parties check that the certificate is valid and
 was issued by a trusted authority, called Certificate Authority. Section 2 describes how
 certificates are verified using a chain of trust.
 In addition, the TLS handshake protocol uses asymmetric encryption to generate a
 shared secret key that enables the encryption of the data exchange between two parties.
 Section 3 describes how to leverage EdgeLock SE05x to conduct the TLS handshake
 protocol.


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
12400123 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud

2Certificate chain of trust

 IoT requires each device to possess a unique identity. For certificate-based
 authentication scheme, the identity is made of:
 • Device certificate
 • Device key pair
 The digital certificate binds an identity with a public key. Digital certificates are verified
 using a chain of trust. The certificate chain of trust is a structure of certificates that
 enables the receiver to verify that the sender and all CA's are trustworthy. The trust
 anchor for the digital certificate is the root CA.
 Certificates are issued and signed by certificates that reside higher in the certificate
 hierarchy, so the validity and trustworthiness of a given certificate is determined by the
 corresponding validity of the certificate that signed it. The certificate chain of trust results
 in a root CA signing an intermediate CA that in turn signs a leaf certificate as shown in
 Figure 2:


Figure 2.  Certificate chain of trust

 IoT devices manufactured by the OEM should be equipped with a unique key pair and a
 digital certificate signed by the OEM's CA certificate. The OEM's CA certificate is used
 to sign all the certificates of the devices manufactured by the OEM as shown in Figure 3.
 Precisely, this signature provides the means to verify the validity of device certificates in
 the field.


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
12400124 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud


Figure 3.  Certificate hierarchy

 Before an IoT device manufactured by the OEM goes to the operation phase, they must
 possess the CA certificate, a device certificate and a key pair securely stored. Similarly,
 the OEM cloud platform must possess a certificated signed by the CA and its related
 private key as shown in Figure 4.


Figure 4.  IoT device and OEM cloud credentials

 Security ICs chips like EdgeLock SE05x are capable of internally protecting private
 keys in IoT devices. The CA certificate is typically stored outside the EdgeLock SE05x.
 Section 4 outlines the EdgeLock SE05x trust provisioning models available.


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
12400125 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud

3TLS handshake

 TLS is an industry standard designed to provide identification, authentication,
 confidentiality and integrity of the communication between two endpoints. Every TLS
 connection begins with a TLS handshake protocol that manages the cipher suite
 negotiation, the client and server authentication and the session key exchange. It
 consists of:
 • The hello phase, where both parties negotiate the protocol version and cipher suite.
 • The client and server key exchange phase.
 • The session secret key calculation phase, where a pre-master secret and exchanged
 random values are used to calculate a session key that will be used for securing
 communication.
 Figure 5 illustrates the phases involved in a TLS handshake negotiation:


Figure 5.  TLS handshake steps

 This section briefly explains the use of Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) key
 agreement in a TLS handshake and the use of Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm
 (ECDSA) as an authentication mechanism. For more information, please refer to the
 RFC4492.

 3.1 Hello phase
 The TLS handshake begins by sending a client_hello message. The client_hello
 message is sent by the IoT device and includes its supported cipher suites. It comprises
 three distinct algorithms:
 • The key exchange and authentication algorithm used during the handshake (e.g.
 TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256).
 • The encryption algorithm used to encipher data (e.g.
 TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256).
 • The MAC algorithm used to generate the message digest (e.g.
 TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256).
 In addition, the client_hello message also includes a random number. This random
 number must be requested to the EdgeLock SE05x security IC.
 The server responds with a server_hello message, which contains the cipher suite
 chosen, the session ID and another random number. Figure 6 illustrates the TLS
 handshake hello phase.


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
12400126 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud


Figure 6.  TLS handshake - Hello phase

 3.2 Server key exchange phase
 For the key exchange from the server side, the server sends:
 • A server_certificate message, which is capable of carrying the whole server certificate
 chain (leaf certificate and CA certificate).
 • A serverKeyExchange message, which contains the ephemeral ECDH public key and
 a specification of the corresponding curve. These parameters are signed with ECDSA
 using the private key corresponding to the public key in the server's certificate.
 • A client_certificate_request message, which makes client authentication mandatory.
 This option is recommended to avoid unauthorized devices to connect to the IoT
 network.
 The IoT device verifies the validity of the server certificate chain and then uses the public
 key in the server's certificate to verify the ECDSA signature of the parameters received
 in the serverKeyExchange message. EdgeLock SE05x can optionally be leveraged for
 verifying the ECDSA signature. A valid signature proves the server identity as shown in
 Figure 7.


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
12400127 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud


Figure 7.  TLS handshake - Server key exchange phase

 3.3 Client key exchange phase
 For the key exchange from the client side, the IoT device sends:
 • A client_certificate message, which is capable of carrying the whole client certificate
 chain (leaf certificate and CA certificate).
 • A proof of possession message, which includes a signature used to prove that the IoT
 device is in possession of the private key. The signature is performed in EdgeLock
 SE05x using the IoT device private key.
 • A client_key_exchange message, which includes a ECDH key public generated on the
 same curve as the server's ephemeral ECDH key. The ECDHE ephemeral keys are
 typically generated in the IoT device MCU.
 The server verifies the IoT device certificate chain and uses the IoT device public key
 in the client certificate to verify the proof of possession. By performing this operation,
 the server verifies that the IoT device is actually in possession of the private key
 corresponding to the public key in the client certificate. The process is shown in Figure 8.


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
12400128 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud


Figure 8.  TLS handshake - Client key exchange phase

 3.4 Secret key calculation phase
 Both client and server perform an ECDH operation. The result is used as input to
 compute the premaster secret. The EdgeLock SE05x is in charge of calculating both the
 premaster and master secrets. The master secret is calculated using:
 • The pre-master secret
 • The client and server random numbers
 • An identifier label
 The process is shown in Figure 9.


Figure 9.  TLS handshake - Secret key calculation phase


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
12400129 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud

 At this point, both the IoT device and the OEM cloud are in possession of the shared
 secret key and can start to securely exchange data using a symmetric cryptographic
 algorithm.


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
1240012 10 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud

4EdgeLock SE05x secure provisioning

 The IoT device identity should be unique, verifiable and trustworthy so that device
 registration attempts and any data uploaded to the OEM's servers can be trusted.
 The EdgeLock SE05x is designed to provide a tamper-resistant platform to safely store
 keys and credentials needed for device authentication and registration to OEM's cloud
 service. Leveraging the EdgeLock SE05x security IC, OEMs can safely authenticate their
 devices without writing security code or exposing credentials or keys.
 You can rely on any of the secure provisioning options for the EdgeLock SE05x security
 IC:
 • EdgeLock SE05x pre-configuration for ease of use: Every EdgeLock SE05x product
 variant comes pre-provisioned with keys which can be used for all major use cases,
 including secure onboarding to clouds.
 • EdgeLock SE05x secure provisoning by NXP: The NXP Trust Provisioning service
 offers customized and secure injection of die-individual keys and credentials into
 EdgeLock SE05x on behalf of the OEM. This service is available for high volume
 orders of more than 150K units.
 • EdgeLock SE05x secure provisioning by NXP distributors or third-party partners:
 NXP has agreements with distributors and third-party partners to offer customized and
 secure injection of die-individual keys and credentials into EdgeLock SE05x for orders
 of any size.
 Note:EdgeLock SE05x provisioning can optionally be done by the OEM in case it owns
 or invests in PKI infrastructure at their facilities.


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
1240012 11 / 14
NXP Semiconductors AN12400
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud

5 Legal information
on any weakness or default in the customer’s applications or products, or
the application or use by customer’s third party customer(s). Customer is
5.1Definitionsresponsible for doing all necessary testing for the customer’s applications
and products using NXP Semiconductors products in order to avoid a
Draft — A draft status on a document indicates that the content is stilldefault of the applications and the products or of the application or use by
under internal review and subject to formal approval, which may resultcustomer’s third party customer(s). NXP does not accept any liability in this
in modifications or additions. NXP Semiconductors does not give any respect.
representations or warranties as to the accuracy or completeness of
information included in a draft version of a document and shall have no Export control — This document as well as the item(s) described herein
liability for the consequences of use of such information.may be subject to export control regulations. Export might require a prior
authorization from competent authorities.

Evaluation products — This product is provided on an “as is” and “with all
5.2Disclaimersfaults” basis for evaluation purposes only. NXP Semiconductors, its affiliates
and their suppliers expressly disclaim all warranties, whether express,
implied or statutory, including but not limited to the implied warranties of
Limited warranty and liability — Information in this document is believed
non-infringement, merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. The
to be accurate and reliable. However, NXP Semiconductors does not
entire risk as to the quality, or arising out of the use or performance, of this
give any representations or warranties, expressed or implied, as to the
product remains with customer. In no event shall NXP Semiconductors, its
accuracy or completeness of such information and shall have no liability
affiliates or their suppliers be liable to customer for any special, indirect,
for the consequences of use of such information. NXP Semiconductors
consequential, punitive or incidental damages (including without limitation
takes no responsibility for the content in this document if provided by an
damages for loss of business, business interruption, loss of use, loss of
information source outside of NXP Semiconductors. In no event shall NXP
data or information, and the like) arising out the use of or inability to use
Semiconductors be liable for any indirect, incidental, punitive, special or
the product, whether or not based on tort (including negligence), strict
consequential damages (including - without limitation - lost profits, lost
liability, breach of contract, breach of warranty or any other theory, even if
savings, business interruption, costs related to the removal or replacement
advised of the possibility of such damages. Notwithstanding any damages
of any products or rework charges) whether or not such damages are based
that customer might incur for any reason whatsoever (including without
on tort (including negligence), warranty, breach of contract or any other
limitation, all damages referenced above and all direct or general damages),
legal theory. Notwithstanding any damages that customer might incur for
the entire liability of NXP Semiconductors, its affiliates and their suppliers
any reason whatsoever, NXP Semiconductors’ aggregate and cumulative
and customer’s exclusive remedy for all of the foregoing shall be limited to
liability towards customer for the products described herein shall be limited
actual damages incurred by customer based on reasonable reliance up to
in accordance with the Terms and conditions of commercial sale of NXP
the greater of the amount actually paid by customer for the product or five
Semiconductors.
dollars (US$5.00). The foregoing limitations, exclusions and disclaimers shall
apply to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, even if any remedy
Right to make changes — NXP Semiconductors reserves the right tofails of its essential purpose.
make changes to information published in this document, including without
limitation specifications and product descriptions, at any time and without
Translations — A non-English (translated) version of a document is for
notice. This document supersedes and replaces all information supplied prior
reference only. The English version shall prevail in case of any discrepancy
to the publication hereof.
between the translated and English versions.
Suitability for use — NXP Semiconductors products are not designed,
Security — Customer understands that all NXP products may be subject
authorized or warranted to be suitable for use in life support, life-critical or
to unidentified or documented vulnerabilities. Customer is responsible
safety-critical systems or equipment, nor in applications where failure or
for the design and operation of its applications and products throughout
malfunction of an NXP Semiconductors product can reasonably be expected
their lifecycles to reduce the effect of these vulnerabilities on customer’s
to result in personal injury, death or severe property or environmental
applications and products. Customer’s responsibility also extends to other
damage. NXP Semiconductors and its suppliers accept no liability for
open and/or proprietary technologies supported by NXP products for use
inclusion and/or use of NXP Semiconductors products in such equipment or
in customer’s applications. NXP accepts no liability for any vulnerability.
applications and therefore such inclusion and/or use is at the customer’s own
Customer should regularly check security updates from NXP and follow up
risk.
appropriately. Customer shall select products with security features that best
meet rules, regulations, and standards of the intended application and make
Applications — Applications that are described herein for any of thesethe ultimate design decisions regarding its products and is solely responsible
products are for illustrative purposes only. NXP Semiconductors makes for compliance with all legal, regulatory, and security related requirements
no representation or warranty that such applications will be suitable concerning its products, regardless of any information or support that may
for the specified use without further testing or modification. Customersbe provided by NXP. NXP has a Product Security Incident Response Team
are responsible for the design and operation of their applications and(PSIRT) (reachable at PSIRT@nxp.com) that manages the investigation,
products using NXP Semiconductors products, and NXP Semiconductorsreporting, and solution release to security vulnerabilities of NXP products.
accepts no liability for any assistance with applications or customer product
design. It is customer’s sole responsibility to determine whether the NXP
Semiconductors product is suitable and fit for the customer’s applications
and products planned, as well as for the planned application and use of
customer’s third party customer(s). Customers should provide appropriate5.3Trademarks
design and operating safeguards to minimize the risks associated with
their applications and products. NXP Semiconductors does not accept any Notice: All referenced brands, product names, service names and
liability related to any default, damage, costs or problem which is based trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


AN12400 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.© NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application note Rev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
124001212 / 14
NXP SemiconductorsAN12400
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud

Figures

Fig. 1.Device-to-cloud authentication scenario ............3 Fig. 7. TLS handshake - Server key exchange
Fig. 2.Certificate chain of trust .................................... 4 phase .................................................................8
Fig. 3.Certificate hierarchy .......................................... 5 Fig. 8. TLS handshake - Client key exchange
Fig. 4.IoT device and OEM cloud credentials ..............5 phase .................................................................9
Fig. 5.TLS handshake steps ....................................... 6 Fig. 9. TLS handshake - Secret key calculation
Fig. 6.TLS handshake - Hello phase ...........................7 phase .................................................................9


AN12400All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application note Rev. 1.3 — 7 December 2020
124001213 / 14
NXP SemiconductorsAN12400
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for secure connection to OEM cloud

Contents

1 Device-to-cloud authentication ..........................3
2 Certificate chain of trust .................................... 4
3 TLS handshake ................................................... 6
3.1 Hello phase ........................................................6
3.2 Server key exchange phase ..............................7
3.3 Client key exchange phase ............................... 8
3.4 Secret key calculation phase .............................9
4 EdgeLock SE05x secure provisioning ............ 11
5 Legal information ..............................................12


 Please be aware that important notices concerning this document and the product(s)
 described herein, have been included in section 'Legal information'.

 © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
 For more information, please visit: http://www.nxp.com
 For sales office addresses, please send an email to: salesaddresses@nxp.com
Date of release: 7 December 2020
Document identifier: AN12400
 Document number: 1240012
