

 AN12132 
 A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 
 Rev. 1.1 — 7 March 2018 Application note 
 464211 COMPANY PUBLIC 
 







Document information 
 Info Content 
 Keywords Security IC, IoT, PSP, Cloud authentication, Secure authentication 
 Abstract This document describes how the A71CH security IC can be used to 
establish a secure connection with an OEM cloud. 



 

NXP SemiconductorsAN12132 
 A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


Revision history 
 Rev DateDescription 
 1.0 20180219Initial version 
 1.1 20180302Updated sections 3.2, 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 

 


 

Contact information 
For more information, please visit: http://www.nxp.com


AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 20182of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 

1. Introduction 

 This document describes how the A71CH security IC can be used to establish a secure 
 connection between an IoT device and an OEM cloud. It introduces ECC cryptography 
 and SSL/TLS protocol fundamentals, it describes the mechanisms and credentials 
 involved to create a secure TLS connection between an IoT device and the OEM cloud 
 servers. And finally, for A71CH evaluation and demonstration purposes, it details step by 
 step, how a TLS/SSL based communication can be initiated using A71CH OpenSSL 
 Engine example scripts. 
 
2. A71CH overview 

 The A71CH is a ready-to-use solution enabling ease-of-use security for IoT device 
 makers. It is a secure element capable of securely storing and provisioning credentials, 
 securely connecting IoT devices to public or private clouds and performing cryptographic 
 device authentication. 
 The A71CH solution provides basic security measures protecting the IC against many 
 physical and logical attacks. It can be integrated in various host platforms and operating 
 systems to secure a broad range of applications. In addition, it is complemented by a 
 comprehensive product support package, offering easy design-in with plug & play host 
 application code, easy-to-use development kits, documentation and IC samples for 
 product evaluation. 
 
3. Public key infrastructure and ECC fundamentals 

 Security is an essential requirement for any IoT design. Thus, security should not be 
 considered as differentiator option but rather a standard feature for the IoT designers. IoT 
 devices must follow a secure-by-design approach, ensuring protected storage of 
 credentials, device authentication, secure code execution and safe connections to 
 remote servers among others. In this security context, the A71CH security IC is designed 
 specifically to offer protected access to credentials, secure connection to private or public 
 clouds and cryptographic device proof-of-origin verification. 
 Asymmetric cryptography, also known as public key cryptography, is any cryptographic 
 algorithms based on a pair of keys: a public key and a private key. The private key must 
 be kept secret, while the public key can be shared.
 RSA (River, Shamir and Adleman) and Elliptical-Curve Cryptography (ECC) are two of 
 the most widely used asymmetric cryptography algorithms. In the case of ECC 
 cryptography, it is based on the algebraic structure of elliptic curves over finite fields. 
 Therefore, each key pair (public and private key) is generated from a certain elliptical 
 curve.
 The digital signature, digital certificates, Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm 
 (ECDSA) and Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) key agreement algorithm are briefly 
 explained in the next sections. 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 20183of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 

 3.1 Digital signature 
 A digital signature is used to guarantee the authenticity, the integrity and non-repudiation 
 of a message. A signing algorithm generates a signature given a message and a private 
 key. A signature verifying algorithm accepts or rejects a message given the public key 
 and the signature. 
 Fig 1 illustrates an example of digital signature. In this case, the message is signed with 
 the sender private key. The receiver will validate the signature using both the message 
 and the sender public.




 Fig 1.Digital signature diagram 

 3.2 Digital certificate, Certification Authority (CA) and Certificate Signing 
 Request (CSR) 
 Digital certificates are used to prove the authenticity of shared public keys. Digital 
 certificates are electronic documents that include information about the sender public 
 key, identity of its owner and the signature of a trusted entity that has verified the 
 contents of the certificate, normally called Certificate Authority (CA).
 A Certificate Authority (CA) is an entity that issues digital certificates. The CA is trusted 
 by both the certificate sender and the certificate receiver, and it is typically in charge of 
 receiving a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) and generating a new certificate based 
 upon information contained in the CSR and signed with the CA private key. 
 Therefore, a CSR is a request that contains all the necessary information, e.g., sender 
 public key and relevant information to generate a new digital certificate.
 Fig 2 shows digital certificates generation steps. First, the interested device (sender) 
 creates a Certificate Signing Request. The CSR is then sent to the CA and a new digital 
 certificate is created and signed with the CA private key. Also, the basic contents of this 
 new digital certificate are illustrated in the figure. 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 20184of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 




 Fig 2.Digital certificate generation steps and contents 

 3.3 Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) 
 The Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) algorithm uses ECC to provide a 
 variant of the Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA). A pair of keys (public and private) are 
 generated from an elliptic curve, and these can be used both for signing or verifying a 
 message’s signature. Fig 3 illustrates an example of ECDSA application. In this example, 
 the sender device generates a signature with its private key. The signed message is sent 
 together with the sender digital certificate to the receiver. Finally, the receiver retrieves 
 the sender public key from the digital certificate and uses it to validate the signature of 
 the received message. 




 Fig 3.Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) example 

 3.4 Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) 
 Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman algorithm (ECDH) is a key-agreement protocol. The goal of 
 ECDH is to reach a key agreement between two parties, each having an elliptic-curve 
 key pair generated from the same domain parameters. When the agreement has been 
 reached, a shared secret key, usually referred to as the ‘master key’, is derived to obtain 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 20185of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 session keys. These session keys will be employed to establish a communication using 
 symmetric-key encryption algorithms. 
 The sender and the receiver have its own elliptical key pair. Both the sender and receiver 
 public keys are shared with each other. In this case, the exchange has been represented 
 with digital certificates. Each party can compute the secret key using their own private 
 key and the public key obtained from the received certificate. Due to the elliptical curve 
 properties and the fact that both key pairs have been generated from the same domain 
 parameters, the computed secret key is the same for both parties. This common secret 
 key will be further used for establishing a communication and encrypt messages based 
 on symmetrical cryptography. Fig 4 illustrates the usage of ECDH for a shared secret key 
 agreement.


 

 Fig 4.Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange (ECDH) example 

 In the Elliptic-curve Diffie-Hellman Ephemeral (ECDHE) algorithm case, a new elliptical 
 key pair is generated for each key agreement instead of sharing the already existing 
 public keys.

 3.5 A71CH ECC supported functionality 
 The A71CH security IC supports the following ECC functionality:
•Signature generation and verification (ECDSA). 
•Shared secret calculation using Key Agreement (ECDH or ECDH-E). 
•Protected storage, generation, insertion or deletion of key pairs (NIST-P256 elliptical 
 curve). 
 
 
 
 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 20186of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 

4. A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 
 This section describes the steps and credentials involved so that an IoT device with an 
 A71CH security IC can establish a secure, end-to-end TLS connection with a server in 
 the cloud (OEM cloud).
 A channel established with TLS protocol guarantees authenticity of the device, 
 confidentiality and integrity in the communication between the IoT device and the OEM 
 server. The credentials required to establish this TLS connection are stored, and never 
 leave, the A71CH security IC.
 Fig 5 shows a network composed of an OEM cloud and several IoT devices. Each IoT 
 device features an A71CH security IC and the communication between these and the 
 OEM cloud is secured with TLS protocol. 




 Fig 5.TLS connection between an IoT device and an OEM cloud 

 4.1 IoT device credentials 
 Each IoT device stores a unique elliptical key pair (IoT node key pair) and its digital 
 certificate (IoT certificate) signed by a trusted CA. It should also contain the CA certificate 
 or CA public key for a Server authentication. The IoT device key pair and digital 
 certificate will be securely stored in each A71CH respectively. Fig 6 illustrates the 
 contents of each IoT device in the communication between these and the OEM cloud. 
 The contents of the A71CH security IC (IoT key pair and digital certificate) have been 
 painted in different colors to remark that these credentials are unique per device. 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 20187of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 
 

NXP SemiconductorsAN12132
 A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 

(1) CA certificate could optionally be stored inside A71CH 

 Fig 6. IoT device certificates 

4.2 OEM cloud server credentials 
The OEM server in the cloud stores a unique key pair (Server key pair) and a digital 
certificate (Server certificate) signed by a trusted CA. The server can either behave as 
the CA (thus store the self-signed root CA certificate and root CA key pair) or trust in a 
third-party CA. Fig 7 completes Fig 6 by representing the contents of the OEM cloud. 


 
AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 20188of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 




(1) CA certificate could optionally be stored inside A71CH 

Fig 7.OEM cloud server certificates 

 4.3 Transport Layer Security protocol (TLS) 
 IoT devices own several connectivity features that allow them to exchange data with the 
 cloud. Therefore, the network link between these IoT devices and the cloud or server 
 should be secure. Transport Layer Security protocol (TLS), and its predecessor Secure 
 Sockets Layer (SSL), are cryptographic protocols that provide communications security 
 over unsecure networks. These protocols are created from the necessity of establishing 
 a connection preserving confidentiality, integrity and authenticity. 




 Fig 8.TLS connection between two IoT devices and OEM cloud 

 Fig 9 illustrates the protocol stack of a TLS communication over a TCP/IP network. In the 
 well-known ISO/OSI layer architecture, SSL/TLS would belong to the presentation layer 
 in charge of encrypting and securing the entire communication. The transport and 
 network protocol TCP/IP and the medium access control (MAC) would fall in layers from 
 4 to 2, respectively. Finally, data would be electrically transferred according to ethernet 
 (or wireless ethernet) protocols. 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 20189of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 




 Fig 9.Communication stack. ISO/OSI Layers. 

 4.3.1 Transport Layer Security Handshake protocol 
 Before the IoT device and the server in the cloud begin exchanging data over TLS, the 
 tunnel encryption must be negotiated. This negotiation is referred as TLS Handshake. 
 The TLS Handshake Protocol is responsible for the authentication and key exchange 
 necessary to establish or resume secure sessions. When establishing a secure session, 
 the TLS Handshake Protocol manages the following: 
•Agree on the TLS protocol version to be used. 
•Select cipher suite. 
•Authenticate each other by exchanging and validating digital certificates. 
•Use asymmetric encryption techniques to generate a shared secret key, which 
 avoids the key distribution problem. SSL or TLS then uses the shared key for the 
 symmetric encryption of messages, which is faster than asymmetric encryption. 
 The TLS Handshake Protocol involves the following steps: 
•Exchange Hello messages to agree on algorithms, exchange random values, and 
 check for resumption. 
•Exchange the necessary cryptographic parameters to allow the client and server to 
 agree on a pre-master secret. 
•Exchange certifications and cryptographic information to allow the client and server 
 to authenticate themselves. 
•Generate a master secret from the pre-master secret and exchanged random value. 
•Provide security parameters to the record layer. 
•Allow the client and server to verify that their peer has calculated the same security 
 parameters and that the handshake occurred without tampering by an attacker.



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201810of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 The A71CH security IC supports the TLS Handshake Protocol version 1.2 with the 
 following options: 
•Pre-Shared Key Cipher suites for TLS as described in [RFC4279]: A set of cipher 
 suites for supporting TLS using pre-shared symmetric keys (TLS_PSK_WITH_xxx) 
•ECDHE_PSK Cipher suites for TLS as described in [RFC5489]: A set of cipher suites 
 that use a pre-shared key to authenticate an Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman exchange 
 with Ephemeral keys (TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_xxx). 
 The Fig 10 represents an overview of the TLS 1.2 handshake with ECDSA-ECDHE. 
 More information about the TLS 1.2 handshake protocol can be obtained from the 
 standard specifications document [RFC5246] or from [AN_A71CH_HOST_SW]. 





AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201811of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 
 

NXP SemiconductorsAN12132
 A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 




 Fig 10.TLS 1.2 Handshake diagram with ECDHE-ECDSA 


 
AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201812of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 Once a TLS connection has been established between two devices, all data exchange is 
 secured.
 4.3.2 Transport Layer Security software libraries 
 There are several full-featured TLS software libraries that can be used in both server 
 cloud and IoT devices such openSSL, mbedTLS, WolfTLS, etc. OpenSSL [OPEN_SSL] 
 is an open-source implementation of SSL/TLS protocol. It is written in C language, 
 although there are several wrappers to use this library in other languages. It implements 
 all the cryptography functions needed and it is widely used.Starting with OpenSSL 0.9.6 
 an ‘Engine interface’ was added allowing support for alternative cryptographic 
 implementations. This Engine interface can be used to interface with external crypto 
 devices as e.g. HW accelerator cards or security ICs like the A71CH. 
 The OpenSSL toolkit including an A71CH OpenSSL Engine is available as part of the 
 A71CH Host software package [A71CH_OPENSSL_ENGINE]. The A71CH OpenSSL 
 Engine gives access to several A71CH features via the A71CH Host Library not natively 
 supported by OpenSSL implementation. In other words, the Engine links the OpenSSL 
 libraries to the A71CH Host API, and overwrites some of the native OpenSSL functions in 
 order to include the use of the A71CH crypto functionality such as sign, verify and key 
 exchange operations or random messages generation, that can be used for instance 
 during the TLS Handshake protocol.
 The A7CH OpenSSL Engine is fully compatible with the i.MX6UltraLite embedded 
 platform. Nevertheless, more support will be added in future revisions. 
 Fig 11 illustrates the Host MCU software architecture. As it can be observed, the 
 software stack is formed by an application that will call OpenSSL functions. Some of 
 these functions will be overwritten by the A71CH OpenSSL Engine, thus the A71CH 
 crypto functionality will be used through the A71CH Host Library over I2C. 




 Fig 11. Host SW stack including OpenSSL, OpenSSL engine and A71CH Host Library 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201813of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 

5. Evaluating A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud
 For easy product evaluation, the A71CH product support package (PSP) includes a 
 group of scripts demonstrating the establishment of a communication secured with TLS 
 between two end-points. 
 In this section it is explained, step by step, how to execute the A71CH OpenSSL Engine 
 example scripts that establish a TLS connection between a development PC acting as a 
 server and the i.MX6UltraLite embedded platform acting as an IoT device client.

 Note: This section explains how to execute the A71CH OpenSSL Engine example scripts 
 and associated key material provided as part of the A71CH product support package. 
 These scripts illustrate how to initiate a TLS/SSL based communication between a 
 development PC acting as a server and the i.MX6UltraLite embedded platform acting as 
 an IoT device client. Therefore, the following description refers purely to demonstration 
 purposes and needs to be adjusted and adapted for commercial deployment. 


 5.1 Demo setup 
 This sample demo setup consists of the following items: 
•IoT device: Represented by an i.MX6UltraLite (MCIMX6UL-EVKB) host board and an 
 A71CH security IC connected to the OM3710/A71CHPCB contained in the 
 OM3710/A71CHARD Arduino compatible development kit. 
•OEM Cloud sever: Represented by a Linux Ubuntu machine. 
•A development PC running a terminal application to interact with the i.MX6UltraLite 
 (MCIMX6UL-EVKB) board.
 Fig 12 illustrates these items and how are they connected. 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201814of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 

 Fig 12. Demo setup for A71CH OpenSSL examples

 The A71CH product support packages includes a precompiled image containing a Linux 
 distribution with the A71CH Host Library and the OpenSSL Engine examples included in 
 it. These scripts use the Configure Tool and the A71CH OpenSSL Engine library. More 
 information on this can be found in [AN_A71CH_HOST_SW].
 In this sample demo, the precompiled Linux image should be installed in a micro SD 
 memory card and connected to i.MX6UltraLite evaluation board micro SD slot. On the 
 other side, the Linux machine (Ubuntu) should also have the A71CH Host software 
 package [A71CH_HOST_SW]. 
 The following steps are required to establish a TLS communication between the IoT 
 device and the OEM cloud: 
1. i.MX6UltraLite and OM3170/A71CHPCB board setup. 
2. IoT device and OEM cloud server credentials preparation.
3. A71CH security IC key injection. 
4. Linux machine preparation and credentials transfer.
5. Starting the server TLS connection. 
6. Starting the client TLS connection. 

 5.2 i.MX6UltraLite and A71CH mini PCB board setup 
 The i.MX6UltraLite evaluation kit should be connected to the A71CH mini PCB board 
 with the Arduino header adapter as is illustrated in Fig 13. The i.MX6UltraLite board 
 should be flashed with the precompiled Linux image. Please, refer to 
 [QUICK_START_IMX6] for instructions about getting started with i.MX6UltraLite and 
 OM3710A71CHARD. 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201815of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 




 (1) The left red rectangle highlights the Ethernet ports. The middle one highlights the A71CH and the 
 right one, the i.MX6 (Client MCU) 

 Fig 13. i.MX6 evaluation kit with A71CH demo board 

 Additionally, an internet connection is needed in this scenario. An Ethernet cable should 
 be plugged into the bottom port available on the board. The IP address should be 
 reachable for the development PC (Ubuntu – server). 

 5.3 IoT device and OEM cloud server credentials preparation 
 The ECC key pairs and digital certificates used in this demo are generated using the 
 tlsCreateCredentialsRunOnClientOnce.sh script. This bash script must be executed 
 first to prepare all the required ECC keys and certificates for the TLS/SSL connection. 
 Once the i.MX6UltraLite is initialized and its terminal is opened, the commands to change 
 directory to the one containing the scripts and execute this script are: 
 #cd axHostSw/hostLib/embSeEngine/a71chDemo/scripts 
 #./tlsCreateCredentialsRunOnClientOnce.sh 
 To simplify the credential creation process, the script creates both client and server 
 credentials (once) on the client platform. One must transfer the server credentials 
 created to the server platform.
 First, the root CA is simulated and created by generating its root key pair and its root CA 
 certificate using OpenSSL commands. In a real scenario, the CA is an external trusted 
 entity whose root CA certificate and private key are securely stored on an HSM 
 (Hardware Security Module).



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201816of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 After the CA certificate, the IoT device and OEM cloud credentials are created. The ECC 
 private and public keys are generated using the P-NIST 256 ECC curves parameters as 
 an OpenSSL function input argument. A CSR is then generated and sent to the CA. This 
 CSR may contain, for instance, information about the IoT manufacturer, its main 
 functionality, contact details, etc. Once the CSR has been used by the CA to generate 
 the corresponding IoT device certificate signed with the root CA private key, it is sent 
 back to the client. 
 Similarly, the server ECC key pair is created and the CSR is prepared, sent and used by 
 the CA to create server’s certificate. At the end of the process, the client and the server 
 credentials are ready.
 Fig 14 illustrates the CA, IoT device and server credentials creation on the Host MCU 
 (i.MX6 UltraLite of the MCIMX6UL-EVKB). 




 (1) To simplify the credential creation process, the script creates both client and server credentials 
 (once) on the IoT device. 

 Fig 14. CA, IoT device and server credentials creation 

 The Fig 15 shows a part of the script execution on the terminal. In this part, the server 
 digital certificate is generated and printed in the terminal. The most interesting fields are 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201817of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 highlighted: the subject field, the issuer (Demo-CA), the signature algorithm and the 
 serial number of the SE.




 (2) Server Certificate created during the script execution 

 Fig 15. Executing tlsCreateCredentialsRunOnClientOnce.sh 

 5.4 A71CH security IC key injection
 The created IoT device ECC private and public keys should be injected into the A71CH 
 securityIC. Thiswillensure thatthese are keptsafeand protected:onceinjected,the 
 private key will never leave the module. Whenever these keys are required to digitally sign 
 or verify a file, it is possible to use them within the A71CH, using the A71CH OpenSSL 
 Engine functionality.Thekeysinjection iscarriedoutusingthe A71CH Configure Tool 
 commands line, provisioning the A71CH with the client keys. 
 The IoT device contains the digital certificates and key pairs created in the previous step. 
 The IoT device key pair is then stored inside the A71CH. It is possible to store the device 
 and CA certificates or the CA public key inside the A71CH, although it is not done this way 
 in this demo example. The command to be executed to storeIoT device keys intothe 
 A71CH is: 
 #./tlsPrepareClient.sh 
 Fig 16 illustrates the injection of the IoT device key pair into the A71CH. The script 
 tlsPrepareClient.sh will use the Configure Tool application included in the A71CH Host 
 software package. 




AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201818of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 
 

NXP SemiconductorsAN12132
 A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 

(1) (1) To simplify the credential creation process, the script creates both client and server 
credentials (once) on the IoT device. 
 Fig 16.A71CH security IC key injection 

The Fig 17 shows the end of the tlsPrepareClient.sh execution. In this case, the A71CH 
Configure Tool command info pair is executed to show the key pairs that have been 
stored inside the A71CH. The most relevant information is highlighted with a red 
rectangle. 
 


 
AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201819of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 

 (1) First red rectangle highlights the execution on info pair command. Second one shows how the 
 public keys from ECC key pairs look like 
 Fig 17. Executing tlsPrepareClient.sh 

 5.5 Linux machine preparation and credentials transfer (OEM cloud) 
 On the OEM cloud server side, there is some preparation to be done before executing 
 the corresponding script: 
•Transfer the most updated version of the Host Library to the Server machine and 
 uncompress it. 
•Update Linux repositories and upgrade the installed packages running the following 
 commands on the Linux Terminal: 
 #sudo apt-get update 
 #sudo apt-get upgrade 
•Install additional packages for OpenSSL: 
 #sudo apt-get install libssl-dev 
•Navigate to the Host Library folder and compile the library: 
 #cd ~/<…>/axHostSw/linux
 #make -f Makefile_A71CH default applet=A71CH conn=i2c platf=native 
•Navigate to the scripts folder: 
 #cd axHostSw/hostLib/embSeEngine/a71chDemo/scripts 
 The next step is to transfer the server credentials and a copy of the CA certificate from 
 the IoT device (i.MX6UltraLite) to the Linux Ubuntu machine (e.g. using a USB drive, or 
 any other mechanims). In other words, to transfer the Server credentials from the IoT 
 device storage to the Server storage.



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201820of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 


 For simplicity, this guide shows how to transfer all the credentials folder. With the 
 following commands, the user can mount the USB drive into a folder inside the 
 i.MX6UltraLite file system and copy the folder with the credentials. 
 #cd ~ 
 #mkdir usb
 #mount /dev/sdc1 ./usb 
 #cp ~/axHostSw/hostLib/embSeEngine/a71chDemo/ecc ~/usb 
 Now the USB drive can be unmounted and connected to the PC running Linux (or virtual 
 machine) and copy the folder into the same path of the Host library they were in the IoT 
 device. Fig 18 shows the server credentials already transferred from the IoT device to the 
 OEM Cloud server. 




 Fig 18. Server credentials transfer



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201821of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 

 5.6 Starting the server TLS connection 
 Before starting up the server, it is important to obtain the IP address that will be used in 
 the IoT device commands. Executing the command ifconfig in the Linux machine terminal 
 gives the user information about the network interfaces. The ethernet IP address is in the 
 field inet addr (Fig 19). 




 (1) Highlighted in red, the server IP address

 Fig 19. ifconfig command execution 

 The script to start the server admits one parameter that can be chosen by the user. This 
 parameterdeterminewhichalgorithmisusedinthekeyexchangephase oftheTLS 
 handshakeprotocol.TheusercaneitherchooseECDH, ECHDE oracceptbothkey 
 exchange algorithms. ECDH is used in this guide: 
 #./tlsServer.sh ECDH 
 The script uses an OpenSSL command whose input arguments are the server public key, 
 the server certificate, the CA certificate and the port that it will be listening to (Fig 20). Now 
 the server is ready to receive any client connection request. 



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201822of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 


NXP Semiconductors AN12132
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 




(1) OpenSSL command executed in this script 

Fig 20. tlsServer.sh execution 

 5.7 Starting the client TLS connection.
 In the case of the IoT device, the script needs two input parameters: the first one is the 
 Server IP address that was obtained in the previous step, and the second one is the 
 algorithm for the key exchange that used for the tlsServer.sh script. This algorithm 
 should be the same in both ends of the communication. In this example the script should 
 be executed as: 
 #./tlsSeClient <IP-address> ECDH 
 Where the Server’s IP corresponds to the one obtained in Fig 19.
 Correspondingly, the tlsSeClient.sh script is also started with an OpenSSL command that 
 requires the IoT device public key, the IoT device certificate, the CA certificate and the IP 
 address and port of the server. Once the IoT device and the server have been initialized, 
 the TLS handshake starts. Fig 21 illustrates the connection between the IoT device and 
 the Server through the port 8080 and the local IP address.



AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201823of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC 464211 
 

NXP SemiconductorsAN12132
 A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 




Fig 21. Server and IoT device TLS initialization 

The result when the TLS connection has been successfully established is shown in the 
IoT device terminal (Tera Term, Fig 22).
 


 
AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201824of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC464211 
 

NXP SemiconductorsAN12132
 A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 




 Fig 22.TLS connection success (IoT device side) 

and server terminal (Linux terminal, Fig 23).


 

 Fig 23.TLS connection success (Server side) 


 
AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201825of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC464211 
 

NXP SemiconductorsAN12132
 A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 

6.Referenced Documents 

Table 1.Referenced Documents 

 [OPEN_SSL]OpenSSL Cryptography and SSL/TLS Toolkit information - 
 www.openssl.org 
 [RFC4279] Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport Layer Security 
 (TLS) - December 2005 
 [RFC5489] ECDHE_PKE Cipher Suites for Transport Layer Security 
 (TLS) - March 2009 
 [RFC5246] The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol - Version 1.2, 
 August 2008 
 [RFC4492] Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) Cipher Suites for 
 Transport Layer Security (TLS) - May 2006 
 [A71CH_HOST_SW] A71CH Host Software Package (Windows Installer) - 
 DocStore sw4673xx1, Version 01.03.00 (or later) available on 
 www.nxp.com/A71CH 
 A71CH Host Software Package (Bash installer) - DocStore 
 sw4672xx1, Version 01.03.00 (or later) available on 
 www.nxp.com/A71CH 
 [A71CH_OPENSSL_ENGINE]A71CH OpenSSL Engine – DocStore um4334**1 
 [QUICK_START_IMX6]AN12119 Quick start guide for OM3710A71CHARD i.MX6 – 
 Application note, document number 4582**1 
 [AN_A71CH_HOST_SW]AN12133 A71CH Host software package documentation – 
 Application note, document number 4643**1 

1 **… document version number 
 


 
AN12132All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2018. All rights reserved. 
Application note Rev.1.1— 7 March 201826of 30 
COMPANY PUBLIC464211 
 

NXP Semiconductors 
 AN12132name.property documentUnknown Error! 
A71CH for secure connection to OEM cloud 
 


 
 
