 AN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication
 Rev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020 Application note
 534711


Document information
 InformationContent
 Keywords EdgeLock SE05x, mutual authentication, proof of possession
 Abstract This document describes how to leverage EdgeLock SE05x for device-to-
device authentication
NXP SemiconductorsAN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication

Revision history

Revision history
 Revision Date Description
 number
 1.02019-06-08 First document release
 1.12020-01-20 Added EdgeLock product name and other minor corrections
 1.22020-12-07 Updated to new template and fixed broken URLs


AN12399All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application note Rev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
5347112 / 12
NXP Semiconductors AN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication

1Device-to-device authentication

 The IoT environment increases the exposure of high value components to new
 security threats. OEM manufacturers need to protect themselves from non-authorized
 components, discriminate original devices from fake copies, avoid device misuse and
 over usage, and make sure customers purchase original equipment.
 If we do not take security into account, attackers may try to compromise our devices by:
 • Exploiting software bugs
 • Extracting device keys
 • Inserting counterfeit devices
 • Abusing untrusted connections
 • Disclosing confidential data, etc
 These security threats are significantly serious for IoT systems dealing with real time
 processes, even risking safety in case of medical devices, industrial processes, energy
 grids or traffic lights automation, among others.
 For illustrative purposes, let's assume an OEM which manufactures a certain type
 of machinery controlled by a centralized control unit as shown in Figure 1. As these
 machines perform some critical tasks in the manufacturing plant:
 • The control unit authenticates the machine that is attempting to connect to it.
 • The machines also authenticate the control unit that will manage it.
 Therefore, only authenticated machines and control units will be used in the supply
 chain. This mechanism ensures protection against rogue devices that might damage
 production, degrading security levels or risking employee safety.


Figure 1.  Device-to-device authentication scenario

 The exchange of digital certificates is the basis of the authentication process. The two
 parties check that the certificate is valid and was issued by a trusted authority, known as
 Certificate Authority. Section 2 describes how certificates are verified using a certificate
 chain of trust.
 Digital certificates, as public information, are susceptible to be intercepted and be
 misused. For this reason, a proof of possession of the certificate private key is an
 essential requirement to validate the certificate source. Section 3 describes how to
 leverage EdgeLock SE05x to conduct the proof of possession.
 The private key must be kept secret and protected. The leakage of any private key
 compromises the identity verification and the overall system security. The EdgeLock
 SE05x provides a trust anchor at the silicon level, providing a tamper-resistant platform
 capable of securely storing keys and credentials needed for offline authentication.

AN12399All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
 5347113 / 12
NXP Semiconductors AN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication

2Certificate chain of trust

 IoT requires each device to possess a unique identity. For certificate-based
 authentication scheme, the identity is made of:
 • Device certificate
 • Device key pair
 The digital certificate binds an identity with a public key. Digital certificates are verified
 using a chain of trust. The certificate chain of trust is a structure of certificates that enable
 the receiver to verity that the sender and all CA's are trustworthy. The trust anchor for the
 digital certificate is the root CA.
 Certificates are issued and signed by certificates that reside higher in the certificate
 hierarchy, so the validity and trustworthiness of a given certificate is determined by the
 corresponding validity of the certificate that signed it. The certificate chain of trust results
 in a root CA signing an intermediate CA that in turn signs a leaf certificate as shown in
 Figure 2


Figure 2.  Certificate chain of trust

 IoT devices manufactured by the OEM should be equipped with a unique key pair and a
 digital certificate signed by the OEM's CA certificate. The OEM's CA certificate is used to
 sign all the certificates of the devices manufactured by the OEM. Precisely, this signature
 provides the means to verify the validity of device certificates in the field (Figure 3).


AN12399All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
 5347114 / 12
NXP Semiconductors AN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication


Figure 3.  Certificate hierarchy

 Before a machine or control unit manufactured by the OEM goes to the operation phase,
 they must possess the CA certificate, an individual certificate and a key pair securely
 stored as shown in Figure 4.


Figure 4.  Machine and control unit credentials

 Secure silicon chips like EdgeLock SE05x are capable of internally protecting private
 keys in IoT devices. The CA certificate could optionally be stored outside the EdgeLock
 SE05x. Section 4 outlines the EdgeLock SE05x trust provisioning models available.


AN12399All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
 5347115 / 12
NXP Semiconductors AN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication

3Mutual authentication flow

 The authentication flow consists of a mutual authentication procedure. First, the machine
 will authenticate the control unit that it will be connected to. After that, the control unit will
 authenticate the machine that attempts to connect.

 3.1 Control unit authentication
 The authentication of the control unit consists of two steps: the certificate validation and
 the private key proof of possession as shown in Figure 5.
 Certificate validation:
 The first step is the verification of the control unit digital certificate.
 1. The control unit sends its device certificate together with its hierarchy of CA
certificates.
 2. The machine validates that the provided certificate chain of trust is valid by verifying
the signatures of all the certificates in the chain up to the root CA
 If the control unit certificate is valid, it means that the public key included in it can be
 trusted.
 Proof of possesion:
 The second step is the proof of possession. This procedure is needed to make sure that
 the certificate we verified belongs to the control unit. This proof of possession mechanism
 ensures that the uploader of the certificate also knows the associated private key. For
 that,
 1. The machine generates a random challenge
 2. The control unit returns the random challenge signed, using its private key stored
inside EdgeLock SE05x.
 3. The machine validates the random number signature with the public key obtained
from the machine certificate
 A successful response means that the control unit is authentic. Bear in mind that the
 trust relies on protecting the private key. For this reason, the use of EdgeLock SE05x is
 fundamental to make sure the private key is not compromised.


AN12399All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
 5347116 / 12
NXP Semiconductors AN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication


Figure 5.  Control unit authentication flow

 3.2 Machine authentication
 The authentication of the machine also consists of two steps: the certificate validation
 and the private key proof of possession as shown in Figure 6. These two steps are
 equivalent to the ones performed for the control unit authentication.
 Certificate validation:
 The first step is the verification of the machine digital certificate.
 1. The machine sends its device certificate together with its hierarhcy of CA certificates.
 2. The control unit validates that the provided certificate chain of trust is valid by verifying
the signatures of all the certificates in the chain up to the root CA
 If the machine certificate is valid, it means that the public key included in it can be
 trusted.
 Proof of possesion:
 The second step is the proof of possession. This procedure is needed to make sure that
 the certificate we received belongs to the machine. This proof of possession mechanism
 ensures that the uploader of the certificate also knows the associated private key. For
 that,
 1. The control unit generates a random challenge
 2. The machine returns the random challenge signed, using its private key stored inside
EdgeLock SE05x.
 3. The control unit validates the random number signature with the public key obtained
from the machine certificate


AN12399All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
 5347117 / 12
NXP Semiconductors AN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication

 A successful response means that the machine is authentic. Bear in mind that the trust
 relies on protecting the private key. For this reason, the use of EdgeLock SE05x is
 fundamental to make sure the private key is not compromised.


Figure 6.  Machine authentication flow


AN12399All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
 5347118 / 12
NXP Semiconductors AN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication

4EdgeLock SE05x secure provisioning

 The IoT device identity should be unique, verifiable and trustworthy so that device
 registration attempts and any data uploaded to the OEM's servers can be trusted.
 The EdgeLock SE05x is designed to provide a tamper-resistant platform to safely store
 keys and credentials needed for device authentication and registration to OEM's cloud
 service. Leveraging the EdgeLock SE05x security IC, OEMs can safely authenticate their
 devices without writing security code or exposing credentials or keys.
 You can rely on any of the secure provisioning options for the EdgeLock SE05x security
 IC:
 • EdgeLock SE05x pre-configuration for ease of use: Every EdgeLock SE05x product
 variant comes pre-provisioned with keys which can be used for all major use cases,
 including device-to-device authentication.
 • EdgeLock SE05x secure provisoning by NXP: The NXP Trust Provisioning service
 offers customized and secure injection of die-individual keys and credentials into
 EdgeLock SE05x on behalf of the OEM. This service is available for high volume
 orders of more than 150K units.
 • EdgeLock SE05x secure provisioning by NXP distributors or third-party partners:
 NXP has agreements with distributors and third-party partners to offer customized and
 secure injection of die-individual keys and credentials into EdgeLock SE05x for orders
 of any size.
 Note:EdgeLock SE05x provisioning can optionally be done by the OEM in case it owns
 or invests in PKI infrastructure at their facilities.


AN12399All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application noteRev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
 5347119 / 12
NXP Semiconductors AN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication

5 Legal information
on any weakness or default in the customer’s applications or products, or
the application or use by customer’s third party customer(s). Customer is
5.1Definitionsresponsible for doing all necessary testing for the customer’s applications
and products using NXP Semiconductors products in order to avoid a
Draft — A draft status on a document indicates that the content is stilldefault of the applications and the products or of the application or use by
under internal review and subject to formal approval, which may resultcustomer’s third party customer(s). NXP does not accept any liability in this
in modifications or additions. NXP Semiconductors does not give any respect.
representations or warranties as to the accuracy or completeness of
information included in a draft version of a document and shall have no Export control — This document as well as the item(s) described herein
liability for the consequences of use of such information.may be subject to export control regulations. Export might require a prior
authorization from competent authorities.

Evaluation products — This product is provided on an “as is” and “with all
5.2Disclaimersfaults” basis for evaluation purposes only. NXP Semiconductors, its affiliates
and their suppliers expressly disclaim all warranties, whether express,
implied or statutory, including but not limited to the implied warranties of
Limited warranty and liability — Information in this document is believed
non-infringement, merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. The
to be accurate and reliable. However, NXP Semiconductors does not
entire risk as to the quality, or arising out of the use or performance, of this
give any representations or warranties, expressed or implied, as to the
product remains with customer. In no event shall NXP Semiconductors, its
accuracy or completeness of such information and shall have no liability
affiliates or their suppliers be liable to customer for any special, indirect,
for the consequences of use of such information. NXP Semiconductors
consequential, punitive or incidental damages (including without limitation
takes no responsibility for the content in this document if provided by an
damages for loss of business, business interruption, loss of use, loss of
information source outside of NXP Semiconductors. In no event shall NXP
data or information, and the like) arising out the use of or inability to use
Semiconductors be liable for any indirect, incidental, punitive, special or
the product, whether or not based on tort (including negligence), strict
consequential damages (including - without limitation - lost profits, lost
liability, breach of contract, breach of warranty or any other theory, even if
savings, business interruption, costs related to the removal or replacement
advised of the possibility of such damages. Notwithstanding any damages
of any products or rework charges) whether or not such damages are based
that customer might incur for any reason whatsoever (including without
on tort (including negligence), warranty, breach of contract or any other
limitation, all damages referenced above and all direct or general damages),
legal theory. Notwithstanding any damages that customer might incur for
the entire liability of NXP Semiconductors, its affiliates and their suppliers
any reason whatsoever, NXP Semiconductors’ aggregate and cumulative
and customer’s exclusive remedy for all of the foregoing shall be limited to
liability towards customer for the products described herein shall be limited
actual damages incurred by customer based on reasonable reliance up to
in accordance with the Terms and conditions of commercial sale of NXP
the greater of the amount actually paid by customer for the product or five
Semiconductors.
dollars (US$5.00). The foregoing limitations, exclusions and disclaimers shall
apply to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, even if any remedy
Right to make changes — NXP Semiconductors reserves the right tofails of its essential purpose.
make changes to information published in this document, including without
limitation specifications and product descriptions, at any time and without
Translations — A non-English (translated) version of a document is for
notice. This document supersedes and replaces all information supplied prior
reference only. The English version shall prevail in case of any discrepancy
to the publication hereof.
between the translated and English versions.
Suitability for use — NXP Semiconductors products are not designed,
Security — Customer understands that all NXP products may be subject
authorized or warranted to be suitable for use in life support, life-critical or
to unidentified or documented vulnerabilities. Customer is responsible
safety-critical systems or equipment, nor in applications where failure or
for the design and operation of its applications and products throughout
malfunction of an NXP Semiconductors product can reasonably be expected
their lifecycles to reduce the effect of these vulnerabilities on customer’s
to result in personal injury, death or severe property or environmental
applications and products. Customer’s responsibility also extends to other
damage. NXP Semiconductors and its suppliers accept no liability for
open and/or proprietary technologies supported by NXP products for use
inclusion and/or use of NXP Semiconductors products in such equipment or
in customer’s applications. NXP accepts no liability for any vulnerability.
applications and therefore such inclusion and/or use is at the customer’s own
Customer should regularly check security updates from NXP and follow up
risk.
appropriately. Customer shall select products with security features that best
meet rules, regulations, and standards of the intended application and make
Applications — Applications that are described herein for any of thesethe ultimate design decisions regarding its products and is solely responsible
products are for illustrative purposes only. NXP Semiconductors makes for compliance with all legal, regulatory, and security related requirements
no representation or warranty that such applications will be suitable concerning its products, regardless of any information or support that may
for the specified use without further testing or modification. Customersbe provided by NXP. NXP has a Product Security Incident Response Team
are responsible for the design and operation of their applications and(PSIRT) (reachable at PSIRT@nxp.com) that manages the investigation,
products using NXP Semiconductors products, and NXP Semiconductorsreporting, and solution release to security vulnerabilities of NXP products.
accepts no liability for any assistance with applications or customer product
design. It is customer’s sole responsibility to determine whether the NXP
Semiconductors product is suitable and fit for the customer’s applications
and products planned, as well as for the planned application and use of
customer’s third party customer(s). Customers should provide appropriate5.3Trademarks
design and operating safeguards to minimize the risks associated with
their applications and products. NXP Semiconductors does not accept any Notice: All referenced brands, product names, service names and
liability related to any default, damage, costs or problem which is based trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


AN12399 All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers.© NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application note Rev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
534711 10 / 12
NXP SemiconductorsAN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication

Figures

Fig. 1.Device-to-device authentication scenario ..........3 Fig. 4. Machine and control unit credentials .................5
Fig. 2.Certificate chain of trust .................................... 4 Fig. 5. Control unit authentication flow ......................... 7
Fig. 3.Certificate hierarchy .......................................... 5 Fig. 6. Machine authentication flow ..............................8


AN12399All information provided in this document is subject to legal disclaimers. © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
Application note Rev. 1.2 — 7 December 2020
534711 11 / 12
NXP SemiconductorsAN12399
 EdgeLockTM SE05x for device-to-device authentication

Contents

1 Device-to-device authentication ........................ 3
2 Certificate chain of trust .................................... 4
3 Mutual authentication flow .................................6
3.1 Control unit authentication .................................6
3.2 Machine authentication ......................................7
4 EdgeLock SE05x secure provisioning .............. 9
5 Legal information ..............................................10


 Please be aware that important notices concerning this document and the product(s)
 described herein, have been included in section 'Legal information'.

 © NXP B.V. 2020. All rights reserved.
 For more information, please visit: http://www.nxp.com
 For sales office addresses, please send an email to: salesaddresses@nxp.com
Date of release: 7 December 2020
Document identifier: AN12399
Document number: 534711
